Up you get. Broadway.
The next day
Moses said to his people.
"You have
committed a great sin.
Now I will go up to the Lord.
Perhaps I can make atonement
for your sin."
So Moses returned
to the Lord and said.
"Oh. what a great sin
these people have committed.
They have made gods of gold
for themselves.
False idols they worshipped.
Yet now. if you would
only forgive their sin."
May the Lord bless his name.
In the name of Jesus.
Holy Mary. mother of God.
pray for us sinners.
Now and at the hour
of our death. Amen.
-Pa. I...
-What are you
doing here. boy?
Received a letter
from a priest.
Father Jacobs.
-Came to see me die?
-No. sir. I...
I... I mean. yes...
sir.
You know
who done this to me?
Yes. sir.
Mama told me.
-Say his name.
-Sheriff Butler of Trinity.
I suffered in jail
all these years.
I know. Pa.
My soul can't rest
as long as
he's on this earth.
You know what you got to do.
Isaac Broadway.
redemption comes to those
who turn themselves over
to God.
- Pa. please. tell them you
didn't kill those people!
Promise me you'll do it. son.
Let me take some condolence
up onto those gallows.
Say it. Tell me you promise.
- I-- I promise.
- And after you've done it.
you look to God
for your reward.
Your house
is the house of God.
Time's up.
You'll see Mama soon. Pa!
I won't see her for the flames.
My condolences. son.
They burn the bodies
to ward off cholera.
They come out as ashes.
Some families
spread the ashes.
Some keep them.
Others put up a cross
where the body ought be.
Did he confess anything
on the way to the gallows?
He was framed.
Aren't they all?
Sign here. please.
Whoa. there!
Getting something?
No. thank you.
You gotta order somethin'
if you wanna stay.
Go on feed the boy.
I'll pay.
- Bring me another drink. please.
-Yes. sir.
-Do I know you. mister?
-No.
But it's impolite
to turn down a free drink.
I don't actually drink.
Then I'll just go and have one
for your friend here.
-Where you headed?
-Trinity.
That's quite the journey.
And just who might this be?
My pa.
-I'm taking him home.
-Condolences.
Mind if I ask how he passed?
-Hanged.
-What?
Outlaw?
He was framed.
By the Sheriff of Trinity.
Now why would the Sheriff
do a thing like that?
- You cheatin'
son of a bitch!
I'll kill you!
Cool it. Peter. Cool it.
Goddamn it!
Here.
You might need this.
They call me
St. Christopher. by the way.
He... Henry Broadway.
Go on. put that up.
Henry Broadway.
Can you tell your daddy
he owe me two-day's pay.
please?
Get your ass
out of here!
Get out of here
before I whoop your ass!
Get out!
- Hey. Sheriff.
- Hey boys.
What's he up to?
Sheriff Saul Butler.
my name is Henry Broadway.
And I'm the one
who's gonna kill you.
Did you hear me?
I heard you. son.
But before you do that...
I'd advise you to lift up
the back of my coat.
Now...
I'm gonna stand up.
Turn around very slowly.
Hmm?
If you're gonna
shoot a man...
you should at least try
to look him in the eye.
Look at me.
I'm looking at you.
My name...
is Gabriel Dove.
-You're the Sheriff of Trinity?
-That I am.
- But you're not Saul Butler?
- Afraid not.
Let's take these outside.
This is no place for them
in the house of God.
Easy now. easy.
- Where is he?
- I'll take you to him.
Hmm?
When we walk out these doors.
we will attract attention.
And when I've convinced you
I'm not the man
you came here to kill.
I'd like you to
give yourself up peacefully.
Can you do that?
Yes. sir.
All right. then.
One step at a time.
Henry. is it?
I need you to tell me.
are people watching?
Yeah.
Is there a man
in a wolfskin coat
approaching with his son?
Yeah.
I think I see him.
Are they armed?
- Look up. it's Sheriff.
- Yes. sir.
They're coming this way.
All right. McCaughly.
Put it down.
I can handle this.
Sheriff.
Are you all right there?
You seem to be
having a spot 'o bother.
All's well.
thank you. Gideon.
You'll see that it's possible
to have justice
and leave
a few hearts beating.
Henry...
I want you to look
into the churchyard now.
It'll be here. Come around.
come around. come around.
Easy now. easy.
easy. son. easy.
What does it say?
Saul Butler.
What's the boy after?
Well...
he thinks Saul
wronged him in some way.
Must be mistaken.
Saul never wronged anyone.
Obviously.
he's been misinformed.
If you want to shoot bullets
at the headstone
for the sheer
poetry of it all...
I won't stop you.
Hmm.
What's your beef with Butler?
He framed my father.
Sent him to the gallows.
Hmm.
Did he now?
All right. everyone.
Back to business.
We're all through here.
Go on now. It's all good here.
It's all good.
Are you arresting me?
For wanting to
shoot me in the back?
I'd have to
arrest half the town.
In here.
Sam. a whiskey
for my young friend here
and a coffee for me.
Um. about that
whiskey. Sheriff.
- I don't actually drink.
- Take a seat.
Take a seat.
He's with me. Chuck.
Henry Broadway.
That would make your father
Isaac Broadway.
-You know him?
-No. He built half this town.
Everyone knows
the name Isaac Broadway.
You didn't know?
I didn't see him
after he went to prison.
after my mama died.
Hmm.
Uh. let me give
you a bit of advice.
Keep your ancestry
between us.
- Not every man
who's known is loved.
People don't like him?
Well...
Morning. Sam.
Every town has
its heroes and villains.
- Two of your finest.
-In this town. Saul Butler was the hero
and Isaac Broadway
was the villain.
Now Butler's dead.
You being Broadway's son.
I wouldn't want anyone to get
a lust for vengeance.
How did he die?
They think
it was a Blackfoot girl.
- Was it?
- I don't believe it was.
You came here
to kill the Sheriff.
What was your plan
after that?
I didn't really
have a plan.
I spent all I had
just trying to get here.
Sam. do me a favor.
Feed this young boy
and give him a room
for the night.
Long as you're paying.
In the morning.
I want you to get in that coach
and get as far away
from this town as you can.
I'm sorry
for trying to kill you.
You could have been a hero.
Like I said...
heroes and villains.
Don't get caught
on the wrong side
of that coin.
- Gabriel.
- Hello.
She came to say
Rachel's not feeling well.
Oh.
Ah.
Good girl. Mabel.
Taking care of Rachel.
Let me see
what I've got here.
- Okay.
- Candy.
There you go. That's for you.
Don't tell anyone
I gave you sweets.
- Thank you.
- Good girl.
I'm worried for you.
People are riled up.
Don't worry.
I'm still faster than they are.
Go see Rachel now.
Go.
Love you.
- Go. Bye-bye now. Mabel.
- Come on. honey.
-I know you're there. Gideon.
-Gabriel. just a word.
I just want to know
what you're gonna do
about that
murdering Indian girl.
Well. first...
There's no evidence
that Running Cub.
a Blackfoot girl. not an Injun.
actually killed Saul Butler.
-See. I believe there is.
-Well. leaving that aside...
she's gone.
Even if I wanted to hand her
over to you for a lynching.
it's a basic challenge
to arrest a person
who's not there.
Aye. see.
there's a fur trapper
from up north.
and he claims that he saw
someone that looks like her
up by Strawberry Creek.
Uh-huh.
By "looks like her."
do you mean a Blackfoot?
Hmm? There are
several thousands of them.
Maybe you should just
deputize me.
seeing you can't
find anyone.
I'll look into it.
I will. Thank you
for your civic duty.
Piece of shit.
It's probably
just a bad meal.
But it's near time.
Keep off your feet.
And your back.
Can you handle her clientele
on top of yours?
On top?
You mean stacked up
like a pile of pancakes?
-What am I supposed to do?
-Rest.
I know one man who's not
gonna let her rest.
Well. he doesn't have a choice.
- You gotta think
about the baby
more than anyone else.
- Hi. Mama.
- Oh. there's my girl.
Hi. sweetie.
You did real good
bringing Ms. Sarah.
Very responsible.
aren't you. Mabel?
Okay.
Where'd you get that candy?
Gabriel said not to tell.
Oh. well.
He would have made
such a good father.
Shouldn't you get back?
Yeah. Yeah.
Go. sweetie. Let's go.
Hello?
Come on out.
I know you're in there.
You're behind me.
Of course you are.
The fur trapper said
he saw you.
Gideon's fixing
and gathering up a posse.
I talked him out of it.
Next time.
it'll not be so easy.
Gideon fought
with Saul in the war.
He won't rest.
This land holds
the spirit of my family.
Just as they stood
their ground before me...
I ain't leaving.
Fair enough.
I got you some supplies.
Here for supper?
Um. could I also get
a glass of whiskey. please?
The hell do I care?
Sheriff's paying for it.
Well. hello. handsome boy.
Take that hat off.
You just arrived?
-What's your name?
-Uh. uh. Henry.
I'm just here
till tonight. miss.
Well. Henry...
I think that you deserve a rest
after all your travels.
Don't you think?
Yeah. I... I plan on resting.
Oh. you are too damn cute.
Well. are you just gonna stare
at my girls all night.
or are you gonna
buy me a drink?
I... I don't
actually have any money.
Well. how'd you get
that whiskey. then?
Uh. The Sheriff.
Oh. well. ain't that grand.
Sam. you mind putting me
on Henry's tab?
I'll put you down
as a steak dinner.
Another steak dinner.
Well. look at that.
Now you got
two steak dinners.
Which one
are you gonna try first?
Pour us a goddamn drink. Sam.
You stay there.
Hold my hat.
Where's my drink? Hmm?
The hell you looking at. boy?
What's that?
I don't want
no trouble. mister.
- Hmm.
- It's an urn. Asa.
For someone who died.
don't be so mean about it.
It's my pa.
You brought
your dead daddy here
for a drink. huh?
-Answer me. boy.
-Yeah.
Let's buy him a round!
Come on. sweetie.
let's get out of here.
Get your things.
Hey. Julia...
tell Rachel
to get her ass over here.
She ain't working
till that baby comes. Asa.
Then you can
take her place.
You'll wait your turn
just like everybody else.
Don't take too long.
little boy.
I know you won't.
-Hmm. Thank you.
-Hmm.
You know why I can't leave.
You know the truth.
What happened
to my mother and my father.
You know Butler killed them.
He's dead.
Staying here and dying
won't bring justice.
The truth can't die
with those who carry secrets.
Someone has to be there
to tell it.
When you left your place...
were you still you?
When I left Ireland...
I meant to leave it behind.
Did you?
No.
Not all of it.
I still had
the heartbeat of who I was...
where I came from.
The memories...
of the sorrows of my youth.
You ain't gonna
tell me you've never
been with a girl. right?
Um. I've never
really had the time.
Well. most men
take no time at all.
Hey. look at me.
Give me your hand.
I'm just gonna
make you feel good. okay?
See? Doesn't that feel good?
-Yeah.
-It's gonna be okay.
You're gonna have to let go
for just a second.
You can kiss me
if you'd like.
C'mon in there!
-I ain't got all fuckin' night!
-Shut up. Asa.
You'll have your turn
when it's your turn.
Come here. sugar.
Open the goddamn door.
Let me
take care of this.
Stop banging on my damn door!
Go back downstairs
and wait for your goddamn turn!
My turn.
Get out! Now!
You gonna point that at me?
Oh. I'm gonna do
a lot more than point
if you don't leave right now.
Goddamn it.
You fucking shot me.
We're gonna have some fun.
- Oh. my God!
- Is that Asa?
What the hell?
Oh!
Oh.
Go.
-Asa! Asa!
-Asa!
Hey! Move back!
Move the fuck back! Down!
Shit.
-He's dead. He's dead!
-Boy! Where are you. boy?
Boy! I'll come for you. boy!
I'll take the path. you go!
- What'd you see?
What'd you see?
- I saw nothing!
Boy!
I'm coming for you. boy!
I know you're here.
chicken shit!
Come on out and be a man.
Ain't no way out.
little boy.
Look at that. Oink. Oink.
Now you're gonna die
in a pile of pig shit.
You fucking bastard!
It was a mistake!
I didn't...
It's all right.
- We're gonna need
another horse.
Come on.
Sheriff!
-Who's there?
-Sarah. it's McCaughly.
Is Sheriff there.
He needs to come to town now.
There's been a shooting.
There's two dead.
That miner named Asa
and Julia from the saloon.
-Is Rachel all right?
-She's shook up. Everybody is.
Seems like there ain't no law
around here no more.
Is the Sheriff there?
No.
Ain't nobody gonna be happy
with that. Sarah.
I'll come.
Just let me get dressed.
- Where's the Sheriff?
- He's gonna be here.
You.
You're the deputy?
Is this what this
town has for the law?
God help us. boys.
If Saul was still alive.
we'd have someone
dangling by now.
I'm not here for the dead.
I'm here for who's living.
Leave everything as it is
for when the Sheriff gets here.
Rachel. Rachel
What am I supposed to do?
That's my baby's daddy.
And he's dead.
Rachel. you need to lie down.
Breathe in. calm down.
-Yeah. good girl.
-Where's your husband?
Where's your husband?
He's on his way.
Breathe in. good girl.
Here. use this.
You sure got friendly
with that Sheriff awful fast.
Thought you said
he framed your daddy.
It was the wrong sheriff.
Well. now you on the run.
I think it was God...
punishing me for trying to be
with that woman.
Some might say it's a sin
not to be with a woman
when she calls.
That sounds like something
your daddy would say.
And what would you know
about my father?
Oh. I know
your daddy real. real well.
Before the war.
I was gainfully unemployed
on a plantation owned by
an old banker in Savannah.
I met your daddy when
the Union Army come through.
burning up everything.
I knew
where some gold was hid.
and I told your daddy about it.
Me and him
stole enough gold...
paved the streets
of heaven.
And we planned
to go out west with this
Blackfoot couple as our guide.
That's right. Henry...
that same Blackfoot couple
they hanged your daddy
for killing.
But he pulled
a fast one on me.
He negotiated
with some paddy rollers
for the rights to my person.
He sold you?
Yeah. the war was still on.
people were still buying
and selling slaves.
So I guess he didn't see
nothing wrong with selling
my Black ass
to make a little extra
and keeping my share.
You're here for that gold?
Been looking for it
since the war ended.
I told you
my pa was framed.
Sheriff Saul Butler...
used to be a lawman
in Savannah.
I used to hear stories
about him moving out here
somewhere to
a place called Trinity.
looking for that
old banker's gold.
So maybe he probably had
a good reason to frame
your daddy...
you think?
You think
I know where that gold is?
I don't know. Do you?
No!
That's a beautiful river.
You had a long night.
Hi. Sheriff.
Hello. Mabel.
I see you're minding her.
Where were you last night?
-Maybe. uh...
-Mabel?
Go upstairs
and start your reading.
Okay. bye. Sheriff.
Good girl.
I'm okay.
I'm all right. I'm all right.
Come sit down.
I tell you. that Gideon's
like a bag of weasels.
Shooting his mouth off.
wanting to go take a posse
down to Strawberry Creek
and get that Blackfoot girl
who killed Sheriff Butler.
I... I just figured
I'd better go out there
before there was
any bloodshed.
While you were gone.
three people were killed
in town.
- Who?
-Asa and Red Benton and...
and her mama.
I'm sorry.
I am sorry.
I told them to
leave everything as it was.
It's good.
It's very good.
Where's Red?
Where were you?
I won't ask you again. Sam.
Red's dead.
Uh-huh.
He's with the pigs.
Get off!
Fuck!
I want the boy
that did this to our brother.
It was that boy
that you brought here
done that.
Asa's brothers are not gonna
rest till they make him bleed.
You know that. right?
Where do you think
he was standing?
-Who?
-The kid.
When he shot 'em both.
I don't know. Enlighten me.
You're the Sheriff.
That's funny. Gideon.
Because I swear to God.
every day you're telling me
how to do my job.
I just want to see
some justice.
Justice needs to be
based on the truth.
What you want
is not justice.
It's blood.
Right.
And there's no
goddamn Indian girl
out by Strawberry Creek.
Now. get out of my way.
Where are you headed?
I'm gonna look for the boy.
I'm gonna go up there
and look for him. okay?
- Please be careful.
- I will. All right.
Come on out.
Henry. this is Jacob.
Jacob...
I'd like you to meet
Isaac Broadway's son. Henry.
What's he doing here?
Uh. Jacob is
a respected stage actor.
Uh. so I'm told.
I engaged his services
to get a confession
out your daddy.
But your father would not
release his tongue. young man.
Though I didn't catch
what he whispered to you
at the end there.
- Now. who are these jokers?
- Oh. we go way back.
Treading the boards
back east.
Ain't that right. fellas?
We had an arrangement.
And I plan to stick to it.
Just call it
divine inspiration.
Well. y'all can divinely
pass the collection plate
amongst yourself.
Because I ain't giving up
none of my share.
All right. y'all.
I'm going to hie.
Don't harm the kid.
Go ahead.
He'll be along
in a minute.
-Who'll be along?
-Sheriff.
We left a pretty clear path
for him to follow.
In case it ain't
obvious to you. Henry.
I'm offering you a opportunity
to make a life for yourself.
To make good
on where your daddy failed.
If you help me find that gold.
you can keep his share.
It would have been
your inheritance anyway.
Why would you
want to share it?
I ain't the devil. son.
I'm just a sinner.
We had always planned
to settle down somewhere
and bury the gold.
Keep it safe.
Mm. dig up some
every now and then
when he needed it.
You do remember the house
where you were born.
don't you?
- I. uh...
- No?
I... I don't remember.
Well. I hope to hell it comes
to you soon. because I believe
that's where your daddy
buried that gold
and he built the house
on top of it.
All right.
I got ambushing to do.
I don't want to be
no villain.
Man don't know
what he is
till his back's against
the wall. Henry.
Am I just supposed
to stay here?
Are you following?
I'm waiting on you.
I saw them other fellas
come through here earlier
and I figured
you'd be through.
Uh-huh.
-I'm coming with you.
-No.
You stay out of sight.
You understand
you can't do this alone?
if we're seen together.
I have to arrest you.
I've been
looking for you.
You want to tell me
what happened last night?
I didn't kill that woman.
- Hmm.
- But...
After that.
I can't quite remember.
Huh. You're lying to me.
I'm not.
Come on. come on.
I see you made
new friends.
They're not my friends.
I don't even know 'em.
A priest?
I don't think
he's a real priest.
Like a Lutheran.
Shoot this. at that mark.
- Which rock?
- What?
-Five seconds.
-Five.
Four.
Two.
Drop it. Easy. boy-o.
You want to tell your friends
to put their guns down now?
Do it. Henry.
That boy ain't
gonna kill nobody.
Do it. Henry. Do it.
You're a good man.
You go to the barn.
I'll be over shortly.
Ah. that young fella
who came into town
stirring everything up...
He's Isaac Broadway's son.
- Little Henry.
- Aye. you knew him?
I brought him into this world
right over there.
What?
He's a murderer?
No. no. no.
He's not a murderer.
I don't know what he is.
but he's not that.
Listen. I'm gonna put the rifle
by the door. okay?
Someone comes along
who you don't know.
even if it's a man of God.
especially if it's
a man of God.
costume and all.
soon as he opens
his mouth. you shoot him.
-You hear me?
-Costume?
Aye.
Evil's wearing
all kinds of things
these days.
Here's the blanket.
You know...
When I came out here.
all I wanted was
to make him proud.
My ma used to talk
about him.
He was innocent.
He was a good man.
He loved us.
Hmm.
Turns out the only thing
he ever cared about
was a pile of gold.
Gold?
Yeah.
He stole it from the south.
Huge pile of it.
Then he came here
with the Indians.
Yeah. I'm sure
he cared for you.
Bullshit.
I know it's bullshit.
Because if he loved us.
he would have
told my ma about it.
Huge pile of gold?
Could have changed our lives.
Could have saved her life.
And it's sitting under
the house he built
this entire time.
Henry...
This was
your father's house.
You were born here.
I thought this was yours.
Actually.
it belongs to the town.
Saul Butler made
sure of that.
Hmm. Jesus. he tore it down
and built it so many times.
we all thought
he was crazy.
He must have been
looking for the gold.
And that's why
he killed her parents.
He must have...
-Well...
-What?
I believe
I can clear your name
and Running Cub's.
How many of those men
are still alive?
Just the one.
Former slave.
stole the gold with my pa.
- Now he wants it back.
- Right.
You killed
one of those men.
Now you ride with me.
Come in and have a bowl of soup
when you're ready.
Bartender. whiskey.
What's he doing here?
Jesus.
What happened to you.
little lady?
It's nothing.
Why don't you
mind your business. hmm?
That's our sister.
If that's my sister.
she's bruised up like that.
I might want to
find out who did that.
Cut that
son of a bitch's throat.
Ah!
Good evening.
ladies and gentlemen.
I use that term lightly.
I bet you all wondering...
what a handsome devil
like myself
with a distinctly
different complexion.
is doing
wandering into your
humble establishment.
But if you look
past my negritude.
you will find
that we ain't that different.
Where are you from?
-Georgia. sir. You?
-Georgia.
I knew
I felt something familiar.
Are you just trying
to get yourself killed?
Well. sir. now.
if you went and did that.
you might not find out
where that
little Blackfoot girl
you've been running off
at the mouth about is hiding.
And you do want
to know where she is...
don't you?
If you know
where she is...
I think you're
going to tell me.
Maybe.
Ah. I see.
-I'm pretty certain about that.
-Ooh. that's a big one.
But if you buy me
another drink...
you're goddamn right
I'll tell you.
Another whiskey'd be grand.
Here comes the Sheriff. Pa.
High time the law
means something around here.
Gabriel. Turns out
there is an Indian woman
up by Strawberry Creek.
But you already
knew that. didn't you?
So I guess I'll go
and do your job for you.
Don't be a gobshite. Gideon.
Do you want to make
your son here Thomas
an orphan?
Come on. Pa.
Let's go. men.
Howdy. Sheriff.
Morning.
-Nice town.
-Good people.
If you ever need
any help with anything.
let me know.
I always thought
I'd make a good lawman.
Did you now?
Yeah. don't let me keep you.
Go and catch up with them boys.
And make sure they bring
that girl back proper
and in one piece.
Welcome to Trinity.
-I hear you're a saintly man.
-Hmm.
Let's have a drink
when you get back.
Shall we do that now?
Can't wait.
Hello.
Oh. hi. ma'am.
Do you mind if I. uh.
get a drink?
Been riding all day.
I'm thirsty as all hell.
You a holy man?
A holy man? No. ma'am.
I... I sure ain't.
Stay back. please.
What's the matter?
You all right?
There's water
in the well over there.
You can help yourself.
Thank you. ma'am.
Appreciate it.
Uh. ma'am...
Is there anybody
who might could help me
pull this heavy bucket up?
My shoulder's...
really bad. and I...
I don't think I can
get it up by myself.
My husband's upstairs.
but. uh. he's... he's resting.
All right.
I can bring you a cup
from the house.
and I'll leave it
on the porch.
That'd be mighty fine. ma'am.
Mighty fine. Appreciate it.
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
I'm sorry
I can't be of more help.
But I don't want to
wake my husband.
I completely
understand. ma'am.
I... I tell my daughter
all the time.
do not let strangers
in your house.
-even if the husband's home.
-You have a daughter.
Yes. sure do.
Light of my life.
Well. one of them. anyhow.
Her son. my grandbaby...
Oh. that is
the most angelic child
you ever laid eyes on.
You...
You have children?
No.
Hmm. Mm-hmm. Hmm.
Whoo. Lord.
You mind if I...
...sit for a spell.
take a load off?
- Of course.
- Hmm.
Whoo. Lord.
- Are you all right?
- Mm-hmm.
Riding old Blue
all day.
Come inside.
-You sure? Huh.
-I'm sure.
Thank you.
If you don't mind.
I'm fixing supper.
No. go right ahead.
I'm Sarah...
Sarah Dove.
Maiden name. Creuzburg.
Oh.
Always make sure
to tell people that.
in case they know my kin.
Hmm. I'm. uh.
Christopher. ma'am.
Uh. But most folk
call me St. Christopher.
My husband's
the Sheriff of this town.
That right?
I don't imagine
you've seen a boy
running around here.
have you?
Name Henry Broadway?
Uh. he's in a bit of trouble.
I'm trying to help him out.
You know Henry Broadway?
-Yeah. you?
-Uh...
Yeah. I did...
when he was young.
Do you mind if I have
another cup of water. please?
Sure.
Thank you.
You're a good woman. Ms. Dove.
The name suits you.
Well. Henry. um...
used to talk a lot
about the house
that his daddy built.
Think it made him
feel young and innocent
before he got in
all this trouble.
You wouldn't. um.
happen to know where
that house is. would you?
I think that's
where he's hiding.
Ms. Dove?
No.
No. you don't know
where this house is?
You know him
when he was a boy.
but you don't know
where he lived.
Ms. Dove?
You all right?
Oh. yeah. Yeah. yeah.
I'm just. uh. thinking.
You seem a little flustered.
I didn't mean to upset you.
-It's this house.
-This house?
I haven't seen him.
He's probably hiding
out somewhere.
in the forest. perhaps.
Something funny?
How does you
and your husband...
happen to live in this place?
It belongs to the town.
We live here
because he's the Sheriff.
A convict's house?
- The town decided.
it wasn't me.
My husband
wasn't even here then.
- Sarah!
- Mabel.
Mabel. the supper will be
ready in an hour. yeah?
Now. go on upstairs.
You hear me?
Mayhap you might want
to send her outdoor to play.
Go.
Gold's not here.
-I don't believe you.
-I swear.
This your daddy's house.
ain't it?
Saul Butler tore it apart
again and again looking for it.
If it was here.
he'd have found it.
Well. where is it then?
-My pa built half the town.
-It could be anywhere.
Anywhere?
Anywhere...
ain't a good enough answer.
Where are you going?
Running Cub!
Where are you?
You gotta
get out of here.
You gotta leave right now.
There's a posse on their way.
And they're coming for you.
I ain't running from no posse.
It's time.
Get on your horse
and get the hell
out of here.
I'm gonna have to try
and convince these people
and talk some sense into them.
Ain't no sense
in this godforsaken place.
I'm staying.
Oh. sweet Jesus.
There she is. lads.
Go. bring her in.
Running Cub!
We are here to arrest you
for the murder
of Sheriff Saul Butler.
Come on now.
give yourself up.
Come on up.
Now. put your hands up.
Higher.
-Saul Butler was a murderer.
-Murderer?
Nah.
-He killed my father.
my mother.
-You killed him!
No. she didn't.
That's why I didn't arrest her.
Be careful. son.
-She's innocent.
-And how do you know that?
Because I killed him.
Her only crime
was wanting justice.
For God's sakes. Gideon.
He was gonna kill a child.
I stopped him.
-By gunning him down?
-Hmm.
It's the God's honest truth.
Gideon.
I know a lot of you
fought with Saul.
It doesn't change the truth.
Well.
it doesn't change the fact
that he was murdered!
If you keep thinking
like that...
half of us will die.
No!
Thomas!
No. no. no. Thomas! No!
It's okay.
Hold on.
- What happened?
- It was Gideon.
Gideon and his men.
- She okay?
- Yeah.
She got one. In the side.
Come on.
Lost a lot of blood.
Let me get Sarah.
St. Christopher was here.
I told him there was no gold.
and he left.
I don't know where.
Good. Next time.
shoot the fucker.
Hey. hey. hey.
I remember you.
Our fathers were...
friends.
I taught you to ride.
You... you remember?
Remember that?
"Dust thou art
to dust returnest...
is not spoken of the soul."
I'm gonna learn to read.
so I can read that to my baby.
Oh.
Appreciate you
breaking your rules for me.
Yeah. thank you
for being careful.
Our town!
As long as
Gabriel Dove is still alive...
oh. I ask you...
- do you have my back?
- Yeah.
I said. who has my back?
Yeah.
Do you have my back?
Justice!
Well. my friends.
Did I guide you right.
or I guide you wrong?
Was she there?
Aye.
Did you kill her?
My son is dead.
but she ain't yet.
Killed your boy?
Hmm. condolences.
Let me tell y'all a story.
You remember that boy
come through here
about two days ago?
You know who his daddy is?
Or was?
What do you mean.
who he had in that urn?
Mm-hmm.
Isaac Broadway
was in that urn.
And he sent the boy here
to kill Sheriff Butler.
But that ain't all.
Isaac Broadway stole
a shitload of gold
when he was a soldier
down in Georgia.
Now. I know this.
because I helped him.
It's a crime I confess to.
have atoned for.
and have been forgiven.
But Isaac Broadway...
ain't never confessed.
He just hid that gold.
Now. where would
someone find this gold?
In his house. Same house
Sheriff Butler lived in.
And the same one
y'all done give
to the new sheriff.
Now. I bet anything I own
that Henry Broadway is there.
so is the Sheriff
and that Injun girl.
What are we waiting for?
Henry Broadway.
he killed my brothers.
He killed my brothers!
Son of the bitch should be
hanging from a goddamn tree!
Let me buy you a drink.
Dedicate it to your boy.
Hell. matter of fact...
Drinks for everybody.
Get me a drink.
Go on.
So...
...then...
Relax. Good.
You're fine.
You're safe.
You'll be fine.
Good girl.
You're doing great.
Sarah...
men are coming here soon.
Trying to kill me.
What happened?
I killed Saul.
Now. we have not much time.
When you're ready.
I want you to grab
that bag over there
that I've packed for you.
I want you to take Mabel.
and I want you to leave
with Henry.
What? No.
I'm gonna die tonight. Sarah.
And I want you to live.
-No.
-Take care of Mabel.
Hmm?
You wanted a child.
and I couldn't give you one.
But this is your chance.
This is your chance. darling.
I'm not gonna leave you.
I'm never gonna leave you.
-Sarah.
-No.
Never.
Come on.
Come on. get in
the goddamn wagon.
Saddle up. boys.
We ride for my son.
and we ride for justice.
Let's go!
-What you got to eat?
-Beans.
-You ain't got no meat?
-No.
All right. Whiskey.
Broadway really buried gold
under that old house?
Yep.
It figures. The way this town
sprang up while he was here.
He built this saloon.
That right?
Livery stables.
The town jail.
Every town needs one.
The church.
"My house
is the house of God."
That's what he would say.
What you say
he said about that church?
"My house
is the house of God."
Hmm.
Son of a bitch.
They're here.
Come on. Okay.
Come on. come on. come on.
Down. Down.
Running Cub.
take Mabel upstairs.
Come on. Let's go.
Good girl.
That's it.
Gideon. we gonna
call them outside?
No. There's no point.
Kill them all.
Take some men.
surround the house.
You lot go to the front.
Let's go.
Go. Go. Go.
Come on.
You break the door.
I'll go inside.
Sarah. the windows.
The windows. The windows.
Stay back.
- They're coming
around the side!
-You okay?
-Yeah.
They're on the roof!
Cartridges.
Come on. piece of shit.
Oh!
Get the door!
Shit.
Stay there. child.
Don't move.
Stay down. Stay there.
Come on!
Grab his collar!
Oh. you gonna
have some fun now.
Hold him up.
And again. And again.
Get the rope.
I can't.
Get the goddamn rope!
- Listen to
your fucking brother!
Get it!
You're gonna enjoy
dying. you piece of shit.
That was for Asa.
That was for Red.
And this one's for me.
We gonna take
all your daddy's gold.
All of it.
Keep him
alive for me. brother.
-All right?
-Yeah.
Just you
and me now. boy.
- Ms. Sarah!
- Stay down!
Oh. hey. no. no!
They always
said I was worthless.
Now they know I ain't.
No! No!
Gideon!
Enough! This is over!
Leave it!
End this madness!
I wish
I could. Gabriel.
Don't be stupid.
-Don't.
-It's gone too far.
My boy.
There's no turning back.
Jesus.
Hey. y'all.
I see the preacher
wasn't invited.
Oh!
He had to go to
a meeting with his maker.
Get your fat arse
out of that hole
and stop
desecrating this place.
We gonna get that drink
you said you were gonna
buy me?
Oh. sure I will. I'll bring
it to the jail cell for you.
Whoo.
You know.
I damn near spilt my drink
when they told me
Isaac Broadway
built this church.
If that son of a bitch
was a Christian.
they'd need to tear down
every church there is
and re-consecrate the ground
they's built on.
The sins of the father
visit the son.
You betrayed me.
You the second Broadway
to put me back in chains.
I thought
we had agreement...
that you'd still kill him.
We'd split the gold.
Well. you can kill me and...
hope he does right by you.
Henry...
go up there
and tie his hands now.
Don't even think about it.
or you won't even reach it.
If there's
any gold there...
you won't get
an ounce of it.
I promise you.
You saved my life.
I'm giving you a chance
to save yours.
You take your share
and you leave.
We'll take my father's share
and we'll put it back
in the town.
What?
I'm tired of people
dying for gold
that don't belong
to nobody.
Oh. my share belongs to me.
I earned it.
I will take it and leave
and I guarantee
you will never see
my Black ass again.
Henry. move on
up there now. son.
Nice and easy.
Come on.
- You all right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah?
- It got my leg.
Here you go.
Boy.
Easy does it. son.
Easy does it.
All right?
Come on.
I'm sorry. Sheriff.
They were wrong
about you. sir.
They were that. McCaughly.
You were that.
You are a good man.
-Cheers.
-Here's to Father Steve.
To tell the truth. Sheriff...
I have had
enough of priests.
Wake up.
Breakfast time.
You know. coming here.
I thought avenging my father
was everything.
And I thought maybe
it was about the gold. but...
it wasn't.
The house...
It's your birthright.
It was taken
from your father.
It shouldn't be
taken from you.
No. it's your home.
It's your family.
It is so.
I want you to stay.
Slainte.
- Thank you.
- Slainte Mhath .
Good.
Very good.